Blog 3

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is widely used technique to determine trends and pattern present in large amount of data. My strategy for EDA is to comprehend 
the variables and how it relates with the target variables and the business. This assist me in concluding which variables and what plots shall I use. It also
reduces time by avoinding creation of unnecessary plots.

The goal and primary purpose of EDA is:
1. Determine the hidden patterns in the data.
2. State the hypotheses about the causes of observed pattern in the data.
3. Assess assumptions of statistical properties.

Important methods of EDA are:
1. Univariate Non-graphical - This method let us know the characteristics such as skewness, kurtosis of a particular variable
2. Multivariate Non-graphical - This method shows relation between two or more variables in form of tabular or statistics. Eg. Anova
3. Univariate graphical - This method involves histogram, QQ plot, box plot etc which helps us study graphical distribution of variables. 
4. Multivariate graphical - Among all, multivariate graphical is the most important method acoording to me. In real world, we deal with large number of 
variables and among them there are high chances of correlated variables present. It is necessary we identify these correlated variables and combine them 
so that we have independent variables.

Before performing EDA, I mainly try to look for missing data and create dummy variables for categorical data. Once done, I try to identify relationship among
various variables used. Next, the most important things are statistical property of the data, its outlier and to what extent the assumptions are violated.
