## Blog 1

1. What do you think being a data scientist is about?

In today's world, data is the most important source to find insights which provide right direction to the business. Thus, data scientist leverages technical 
tools to apply statistical concepts on data to extract critical business focussed information. Being a data scientist involves having domain knowledge, 
technology, statistics, and mathematics.

2. What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas? 

The primary duty or responsibility of data scientist is to collect large amount of relevant data, clean and pre-process the data with relevant technology and
logics. Later, this data is used to build statistical and machine learning models to discover trends, provide conclusion and direction to the business. While 
modelling, it is important to verify the assumption and keep in mind the advantages and disadvantages. Communication in today's world is key and it is important 
for data scientist to converse technology with the business in a simple and well explained manner.

3. What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians? 

There is an overlap between data scientists and statisticians but still there exist few differences. Data scientists are more focussed towards data
sourcing, data cleaning and pre-processing. They are more focussed towards building the developed models with the help of machine learning and 
knowledge of computer science. Statistician on other hand is more focussed on mathematics and statistical models to perform quantitative analysis. Also, 
data scientist performs test to identify which model fits best for the business use which statistician try to improve each model to provide best fit for 
our data. The similarity is the underlying knowledge of statistics involved in developing these models.

4. How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?

I don't consider myself as an expert of both or any one of the two areas. On one hand, my previous experience and past projects involved working with huge 
data set and later leveraging machine learning tools and on other hand, in the last one year at NC State, I have gained a good amount of theoretical knowledge 
and have done a project as well. I am at the intersection point of both the areas. Currently, I am looking forward to leverage both the skills in a professional
setting.
